# What are Roadmaps?

## The Roadmap Object

In terms of this pathfinder plugin, a roadmap resembles all waypoints, connecting roads and meta information of one
scope. In case of a roleplay map, this might be the whole world. Otherwise, a spawn town, tutorial world or maze would
be fitting.
It is the job of the roadmap to bundle the information and make it accessible to administrators and players.

## Namespaces and Namespaced Keys

All roadmaps are identified by a unique Namespaced Key. This is a format that minecraft uses in many places, like with
materials: `minecraft:diamond`
Roadmaps usually have a key that starts with the namespace 'pathfinder' and finishes with a custom name, given by the
creator, like `pathfinder:my_town`
To assure that addons for the pathfinder plugin don't conflict with your existing data, they have to register
dynamically created roadmaps with their own namespace. So the namespace can be used to identify which addon created a
roadmap.

::: warning
Choose the key of your roadmap carefully, it cannot be changed later on.
It will not be visible to players.
:::


## Graphs

As mentioned, a roadmap represents a graph. A graph is a collection of waypoints (nodes) and edges that are connecting
the nodes. Edges can be directed (one way) or undirected (both directions possible) and weighted (the costs factor if 
this road, e.g. resembling steepness or vehicle type). The weight is multiplied with the length of the road.

To set up your roadmap, you want to create mentioned nodes for each corner or crossing of your map and connect them
with roads (edges) of the according direction and weight. Players can later search for keywords that are associated with
certain nodes and the plugin can calculate the absolute shortest path from the players position to the target node.

Of course, this shortest path can be visualized with particles and entities.

## Nodes

Nodes are, as mentioned, the basis of the graph. By themselves they cannot do much. They have
- an autogenerated numeric ID.
- a location value that tells, where in the 3D world of Minecraft they are. This can vary over time, but visualized graphs are static and will not updated once generated. 
- one according roadmap. Its 1 to n, each node can only be part of one roadmap.
- an unlimited amount of edges to other nodes (not including itself)
- an unlimited amount of nodegroups, which add behaviour to nodes.
- a curve length attribute to specify the roundness of a possible path at the position of this node.

Check out the [next section](/concept/nodegroups) to learn more about nodegroups and the behaviour they can add to nodes.